>> Exciting new study by a
leading research institute
suggests that mental
intention can not only change
the structure of water but may
even help stem cells to grow.
>> Simply the active intention
on water must have done
something to make the stem
cells actually grow better.
>> This is Gaia News.
[THEME MUSIC]
The Institute of
Noetic Sciences or IONS
is a leader in the
field of exploring
mind-matter interactions.
Their latest study
is the culmination
of a number of
other experiments,
all suggesting that the act of
making an intention on water
produces a measurable response.
Dr. Dean Radin is
the chief scientist
at IONS who led the study.
>> In this experiment,
as in previous studies,
we asked three Buddhist monks
in the temple in Taiwan to focus
their attention towards samples
of water with the intention
that stem cells that were
grown with that water as part
of the growth medium
would proliferate more.
And then we had controlled
water, same company,
same source since
the one that was not
part of the experiment which
was set aside as a control.
So then the water was used
in a double blind fashion
by a technician who
was growing the stem
cells to create growth media
that these stem cells were
put into.
And then they simply measured
over three days how much
were the stem cells growing.
And they also took
other measures
that are genetic
expression factors showing
the health of the stem cells.
>> Researchers were
astounded by the results.
>> What we found was significant
evidence that the stem cells
proliferated more, that the
genes that were expressed were
in alignment with the idea that
they were actually healthier
stem cells.
>> Just what makes these
results so significant?
>> Stem cells are a part of
the human body which are called
pluripotent, which means that
they can turn into any other
kind of cell.
So it's being used mostly
experimentally at this point
but for repair of
the human body.
Anything which makes adult stem
cells proliferate more and last
longer is really
good because it's not
so easy to make adult stem cells
live longer and be healthier.
So what this is
suggesting is that simply
the act of intention on water
must have done something
to the water to make the stem
cells actually grow better.
One of the implications is that
wherever stem cells are being
used, you want to train the
people who are growing the stem
cells to maintain a
certain intention,
that these cells are going
to grow better and then see
what happens.
And if it worked, well,
that would change everything
because now it means
that anybody doing
any kind of mental preparation,
not just stem cells
but anything, if they come
at it with an intention
that this is going
to work better,
well, it looks like
it will work better.
>> IONS is currently planning
follow-up experiments
to replicate the results
and explore further.
For Dr. Radin, the
implications of this research
are far-reaching.
>> The reason why consciousness
is particularly interesting
and why intention is interesting
is because a lot of people are
spending a lot of time doing
things like praying for peace
or praying for somebody else
to be well or praying for this
or praying for that.
It's all about intention
that you want something
to change in the world.
Well, in order for
that to work, it
requires from a
non-religious perspective
that consciousness and intention
in particular does something.
It is causal, in which case
things like praying for peace
would make sense because
then it's not just
people comforting themselves
but they're actually
changing something in
the physical world.
>> For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[THEME MUSIC]